Let's talk a little bit
about multi-platform.
So we mentioned that we are going for
deployment,
we're going to build an app,
a binary file, okay?
And for that, we can select different
platforms and different operating systems.
What's the difference between an OS and
a platform?
The platform typically is an architecture,
can be the CPU.
For example, now we have on the Mac
two different architectures.
We have Intel based Max and
we have ARM, like the M1 chip,
the Apple Silicon chips,
that it's a different architecture,
the same OS but different architecture.
And because we are not creating apps for
a virtual machine, we are creating app for
a platform, we need to pick both DOS and
the architecture.
Also Go can compile to WebAssembly.
Does anyone know what WebAssembly is?
Have you ever heard about WebAssembly?
No, WebAssembly is an ability
of the web platform, so
on browsers, talking about browsers,
to execute native
code that you can write from
different languages such as Go.
So today it's being used for,
typically for
games when you have games on the web for
compression, decompression, cryptography.
It can also be used for cryptocurrencies
if you wanna connect to a blockchain.
All that stuff,
it's better to write that in native code.
Now, it's being used also for
machine learning, deep learning.
So artificial intelligence,
if you want to run AI models,
client-side, you can also
do that with WebAssembly.
Meaning that, for example, if you want to
do AI on the web today, most of the time
you don't wanna do that directly with
JavaScript you want to do that with
a low-level language and then create
a WebAssembly module also known as WASM.
And Go can compile those modules
that then you can execute
in a web app from JavaScript.
I will update this because it's
not transpire, it's transpile.
So, it can even transpile
to frontend JavaScript.
Remember I mentioned that
you can do frontend with Go?
I don't know who will do that, actually.
But, first, what's a transpilation?
Actually, it takes one source code.
And it converts that source
code into another source code.
So for example,
TypeScript takes TypeScript and
the output of TypeScript is JavaScript.
Well with Go, you can also write,
Go and get JavaScript in as the output.
It's not being used, okay?
It was an experiment or
something like that.
There is a list and
you have the link here.
You don't need to follow the link,
but I just wanna show you.
All the operating systems and
architectures compatible
with Go right now.
So you will find a lot of
operating systems freebsd, iOS,
can you create iOS applications with Go?
Well, yes and no.
Let me explain what that means.
You can create a library of code that can
be executed on that OS on that platform.
But for creating the user interface
to connect to the iOS SDK and
actually talk to the, to the touch screen,
it's not going to be available from Go.
So it's more for creating a library or
creating low level code that then
can be linked from Swift on iOS.
Similar that to WebAssembly,
when you create a module that then
you need to link from JavaScript.
Also Android is here.
But it doesn't mean that you can create
fully an application for Android in Go.
It's more for
libraries like it can be logic libraries,
it can be something again,
you're the new Netflix, and
then you have your own video encoder and
decoder while all the parts that
encodes the video receives the bytes and
the fan compress can be done in Go.
And then you can compile the iOS version,
the Android version,
the WebAssembly version for
the web, and so on, okay?
So here you have all the operating
systems, and here all the architectures.
So this has to do with the CPU.
So amd, arm, mips,
there are some mobile Android
devices using mips,
risks, and here is wasm.
So wasm, that's WebAssembly,
is one architecture.
So actually, from any computer,
you can create binaries for
each combination of OS and platform.
So when you make a compilation,
you need to pick your architecture and
your operating system.
By default, when you're building an app,
it's using My Architecture and MyOS.
So I'm on a Mac with
an Apple Silicon chip,
it's going to create an executable for
my Mac.
But also for my Mac, I can create
a .executable.exe for Windows.
I won't be able to run it.
But I will be able to create it,
to build it.
So I can build iOS, Android.
You can build Mac binary
from Windows just by using
the Go [INAUDIBLE] just by
picking the architecture.
So common use cases for Go, we want cover
in this course, all the UC cases, but
the language is just the same language.
Web services, so
you can create restful services or
microservices to provide
services to frontend.
The frontend can be a website,
can be a mobile app, whatever.
Web applications, so
you can actually serve web application.
You can actually create
a web server directly Go.
It's not common for everything for
every website but for some situations,
it's been used for some micro websites
micro solutions is used for DevOps.
For creating dekstop apps, you can create
desktop application like Windows or
Mac applications that you
open you have a window.
It's not like the most common
use case these days, but
you can still use that for that.
Machine learning, so
Go is really fast for machine learning.
Probably if you have get into AI and
how to execute models and
train models most of the time,
we're talking about Python.
But Python is really slow, okay?
So that's okay for
learning and for initial part.
But when you have really big models that
you need to train or you need to execute,
it's better to use Go or
other languages, not Python, okay?
And much more, because it's multipurpose.
We will focus here on learning
the fundamentals that then you can apply
everywhere and then on web services and
web applications.
So we'll focus on that.
That is one of the most
used use cases today.